---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

Hi Everyone,

So this week I decided to contribute to open source by contributing five edits to a Wikipedia page. I went to a page that needed revision to maximize impact. I decided on this page for a Nigerian R & B band called [L.O.S](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/L.O.S). All of my edits were grammatical. The article sounds like it may have been written by a non-native English speaker, so a lot of the grammar was awkward. Here are my edits:


Edit 1: 

L.O.S[1] is a Nigerian music group consisting of members Tomi Thomas, BrisB, Zamir and Bridge, formally known as Yung LOS.[2] The word L.O.S means "Loud on Sound".

L.O.S[1], formally known as Yung LOS, is a Nigerian R & B band consisting of Tomi Thomas, BrisB, Zamir and Bridge.[2] L.O.S is an acronym for "Loud on Sound".

Edit 2: 

The group didn't receive any major recognition until 2011 with the single "Magi," featuring Shank. 

The group received major recognition for the first time in 2011, with their single “Magi” featuring Shank. 

Edit 3: 

Like many others who had been signed to the label, such as "Ikechukwu", Sasha P, General Pype, Ms Jaie, Tosin Martins and at one point Yung6ix, Naeto C, 2Shotz, eLDee and Sinzu, L.O.S went solo.

Like previous artist signed to Storm 360 Record, such as "Ikechukwu", Sasha P, General Pype, Ms Jaie, Tosin Martins, Yung6ix, Naeto C, 2Shotz, eLDee and Sinzu, L.O.S decided to record music without a record label following the incident.

Edit 4:
It was a very dangerous car accident that occurred as they celebrated the eve of group member BrisB's birthday. According to reports, all of the members survived the crash.

The car accident occurred as they celebrated the birthday of BrisB. Although the car accident was very dangerous all of the members survived.

Edit 5: 
20 days after the group survived a car accident, they were mistaken for cyber-criminals by  The Nigeria Police Force and were beaten severely, falling into a coma.

Twenty days after the group survived the car accident they were mistaken for cyber-criminals by The Nigeria Police Force. They were beaten severely with members falling into a coma from the trauma.  
