---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

###Coming Together as a Team

This week on Wednesday we all met over a google hangout chat. We decided to further delegate tasks. I decided to make a 3 part slideshow to teach everyone how Cassandra works. I built them to make sure we all have the same baseline of knowledge working forward. I made part 1 to show everyone on Wednesday and I will present it by Friday. It is available [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/115JtLiVQYc-aZ6EG5xbxGZeTnBwGLdQSxUZ9pyIbpws/edit?usp=sharing). 

This one is an Intro To Cassandra. It describes the pros and cons, the data model, and a very high level of the architecture. The next one will be on the Cassandra architecture in depth. It will point to each part of the architecture in code, and it will show visuals and descriptions of what each part is and does. The third slideshow will be about how to configure and use Cassandra at an advanced level. It will be how to run it on pseudo-distributed mode and how to build on it. 

In our group, Svetleen decided to take initiative in planning meetings, holding people accountable, and reserving rooms. Eli is communicating with the community and trying to get us assigned (or at least pointed to) the correct tickets to solve in Jira. Roy, who is a late-comer to our group, will decide what he will contribute going forward on Friday. Although Roy signed up to be part of our group he didn’t show up for two weeks. But him apologizing, saying he was going through personal stuff, and promising he will be a part of things going forward shows a level of maturity that I believe will make him a very valuable group member. I have high hopes for all of us.

So, our group is coming together and everything is underway. Another update coming next week. Until then, see you soon!

